@(#)CDDB	6.22 03/07/10

Gracenote CDDB®
---------------

Xmcd and cda supports CDDB, the largest and fast growing database of
CD information on the Internet.  The CDDB concept was originally
pioneered by xmcd, and is now embraced as a standard by many other CD
and music-related applications.

With CDDB, you do not have to type in the artist, disc title, track
titles and other disc information for the CDs in your collection.  Xmcd
and cda automatically queries the CDDB server, and if the query is
successful, the information is displayed.

CDDB access is free of charge to end users, but you can use this feature
only if your system has a working connection to the Internet, either via
a dial-up link or a dedicated connection.

On some platforms, this release of xmcd/cda supports the new CDDB²(R)
service with many enhanced features.  On the other platforms, the
CDDB "classic" service is used.  To determine which mode xmcd is running
in, click the wwwWarp button (world symbol) and select "About xmcd...". 
The pop-up information window will indicate whether the CDDB² or the
CDDB "classic" service is being used.  Also, after a successful lookup,
the xmcd front panel will indicate "CDDB²" or "CDDB" depending on the
mode.

As of this writing, xmcd and cda are CDDB²-enabled on the following
platforms:

	OS			Platform	Version
	---------------------------------------------------------
	FreeBSD			x86		3.x, 4.x
	HP-UX			PA-RISC		9.x, 10.x, 11.x
	Linux-libc5		x86		2.x
	Linux-libc6		x86		2.x
	Solaris			sparc		2.x, 7, 8, 9, 10
	Solaris			x86		2.x, 7, 8, 9, 10
	SunOS			sparc		4.1.x
	UnixWare		x86		1.x, 2.x, 7.x
	SCO/Caldera Open UNIX	x86		8.x

Please refer to the xmcd official web site's download area for the
latest list, as Gracenote may add CDDB² library support to more
platforms over time.

Using xmcd's wwwWarp feature, you may also access dynamic content
provided by CDDB², or search the CDDB database.


Using CDDB²
-----------

On selected platforms, xmcd uses the enhanced Gracenote CDDB² Music
Recognition Service(sm) (MRS) to get the artist, title, track, credits,
and other information about the CDs you play.  This service is free and
automatic.  The first time you use the service, you must register with
CDDB.  To register with CDDB, just play a CD with xmcd.  The CDDB User
Registration window appears automatically.  Select a user handle and
password.  The remaining information is optional, but does help CDDB
provide better service.  Once you register, you do not have to
re-register, unless you want to change your registration information or
settings.  To change your CDDB² registration information, open the xmcd
CD Information / Program Editor window (click on the button on the xmcd
main window with the file cabinet symbol) and select the "Register..."
button.

The CDDB² service features richer content than the "classic" CDDB
service, and provides international support via the use of the UTF-8
Unicode character set.


Using "classic" CDDB
--------------------

On those platforms that the Gracenote CDDB² interface library is not
available, xmcd uses the "classic" CDDB service (same as what was used
in xmcd version 2.x).  This service is also free, automatic, and does
not require user registration.  However, "classic" CDDB provides less
content than CDDB².

The CDDB interface library automatically translates between "classic"
CDDB music categories and equivalent CDDB² genres.  Thus, only those
genres are available in the xmcd genre menus.

The "classic" CDDB service provides support for ISO Latin-1 character sets
only.  Also, it will not provide data for the following CDDB²-enhanced
fields:

    In Album Details:
	- Sort title, "The"
	- Year
	- Record label
	- Compilation
	- Genre 2 (secondary genre/subgenre)
	- Region
	- Language
	- Disc x of y
    In Album Credits:
	- Role
	- Name
	- Notes
    In Album Segments:
	- Name
	- Start track/frame
	- End track/frame
	- Notes
	In Segment Credits:
	    - Role
	    - Name
	    - Notes
    In Track Details:
	- Sort title, "The"
	- Artist
	- Year
	- Record label
	- BPM
	- Genre 2 (secondary genre/subgenre)
    In Track Credits:
	- Role
	- Name
	- Notes

If you submit album data to CDDB while running in "classic" CDDB mode,
these CDDB²-enhanced fields will not be submitted.  Finally, "classic"
CDDB does not support the CDDB Music Browser, the Album-specific
URL links, or the URL submission feature under xmcd's wwwWarp menu.

	
Submissions to CDDB
--------------------

Xmcd displays the album, track and credit information downloaded from
CDDB.  If you see any omissions or error in the data, you are encouraged
to correct it and use the Submit button to send it back to CDDB, so that
others may share the corrections.

In order for a submission to succeed, certain fields must be filled in.
These fields are the album title, album artist name (if it's not a
compilation CD) and track titles.  Moreover, the primary album genre
("Genre 1") must not be "None".  Your computer must have an active
Internet connection at the time of submission.

To ensure high data quality, Gracenote employs a sophisticated scheme
of submission processing.  It may use all, some, or none of the fields
that you submit, based on certain heuristics, as well as whether a
particular record already has a reliable data feed source.  Hence,
it is not unusual to see the data come back not exactly as how you
submitted it.


Gracenote CDDB® Terms of Use
----------------------------

This application contains software from CDDB, Inc. of Berkeley,
California d/b/a Gracenote (Gracenote).  The software from Gracenote
(the Gracenote CDDB Client) enables this application to do online disc
identification and obtain music-related information, including name,
artist, track, and title information (Gracenote Data) from online
servers (Gracenote CDDB Servers) and to perform other functions.  You
may use Gracenote Data only by means of the intended End User functions
of this application software.  You agree that you will use Gracenote
Data, the Gracenote CDDB Client, and Gracenote CDDB Servers for your own
personal non-commercial use only.  You agree not to assign, copy,
transfer or transmit the Gracenote CDDB Client or any Gracenote Data to
any third party.  YOU AGREE NOT TO USE OR EXPLOIT GRACENOTE DATA, THE
GRACENOTE CDDB CLIENT, OR GRACENOTE CDDB SERVERS, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY
PERMITTED HEREIN.  You agree that your non-exclusive license to use the
Gracenote Data, the Gracenote CDDB Client, and Gracenote CDDB Servers
will terminate if you violate these restrictions.  If your license
terminates, you agree to cease any and all use of the Gracenote Data,
the Gracenote CDDB Client, and Gracenote CDDB Servers.  Gracenote
reserves all rights in Gracenote Data, the Gracenote CDDB Client, and
the Gracenote CDDB Servers, including all ownership rights.  You agree
that CDDB, Inc. may enforce its rights under this Agreement against you
directly in its own name.  The Gracenote CDDB Client and each item of
Gracenote Data are licensed to you AS IS.  Gracenote makes no
representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the
accuracy of any Gracenote Data from in the Gracenote CDDB Servers.
Gracenote reserves the right to delete data from the Gracenote CDDB
Servers or to change data categories for any cause that Gracenote deems
sufficient.  No warranty is made that the Gracenote CDDB Client or
Gracenote CDDB Servers are error-free or that functioning of Gracenote
CDDB Client or Gracenote CDDB Servers will be uninterrupted.  Gracenote
is not obligated to provide you with any new enhanced or additional data
types or categories that Gracenote may choose to provide in the future
and is free to discontinue its online services at any time.  GRACENOTE
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, TITLE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Gracenote does not warrant the
results that will be obtained by your use of the Gracenote CDDB Client
or any Gracenote CDDB Server.  IN NO CASE WILL GRACENOTE BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES OR FOR ANY LOST PROFITS OR LOST
REVENUES.


Gracenote CDDB® Proprietary Legends
-----------------------------------

CDDB, Inc. d/b/a "Gracenote."  CD and music related data from Gracenote
CDDB® Music Recognition Service(sm) © 2000, 2001 Gracenote.  Gracenote
CDDB Client Software © 2000, 2001 Gracenote.  U.S. Patents Numbers
#5,987,525;  #6,061,680;  #6,154,773, and other patents issued or
pending.  CDDB is a registered trademark of Gracenote.  CDDB-Enabled,
the Gracenote logo, the CDDB Logo, and the "Powered by Gracenote CDDB"
logo are trademarks of Gracenote.  Music Recognition Service and MRS are
service marks of Gracenote.

