@(#)PRIVACY	7.3 01/05/11

Gracenote CDDB Music Recognition Service Privacy Policy
CDDB² version ("Classic" CDDB version see below)

Introduction
------------

Gracenote believes in protecting consumer privacy. We have spent a great
deal of time and effort designing the Gracenote CDDB² Music Recognition
Service[SM] ("CDDB² Service") that you can use with trust and
confidence. The purpose of this privacy statement is to let you know how
we use information that you may share with us.

Please note that this is our privacy policy for our Gracenote CDDB²
Service. We have separate privacy policies for the Gracenote Web Site,
and the Gracenote CDDB Service.  These are accessible from the Main
Privacy Page.

Gracenote CDDB² introduces many new exciting features requested by both
developers and end users like you that allow personalization of the
information delivered to you, while allowing you to remain anonymous,
letting you control your level of participation and the information you
provide, and adding security features to protect your information.

Registration and Requested Information
--------------------------------------

When you register with the Gracenote CDDB² Service, we ask you for
general information about yourself, such as zip or country code, email
address, sex, and age range, that will be helpful in gathering aggregate
statistics, and for delivering personalized content. For example, if you
supply a zip code, we may use it to collect aggregate statistics about
what music fans are playing in your part of the country, or to provide
personalized tour information based on the city in which you live, but
neither Gracenote CDDB nor anyone will use your zip code to try to send
you mail at home or identify you personally. All information requested
is optional, except for a "nickname" you choose, and a password to give
you exclusive access to change or delete your information at any time.

Identifying Information
-----------------------

The Gracenote CDDB² Service uses a unique identifier to track queries
for statistical purposes (see Data Aggregation below) and to allow
personalization features (see Personalized Content below). This is a
number that Gracenote CDDB assigns to you at random when you register.
(A numeric identifier is sometimes called a Globally Unique Identifier,
or GUID. However, there are many different uses of GUIDs, some benign
and some controversial, in the industry.) Gracenote CDDB does not
generate this number from any hardware identifier (such as an IP
address) or any other information that can be traced back to you or the
computer you are using. The purpose of a randomly assigned numeric
identifier is to allow the Gracenote CDDB to count queries without
knowing anything about who you are other than the information you choose
to provide when you register, and which you can delete at any time.

Disclosure of Personal Information
----------------------------------

We do not disclose your individual information to any other company. You
should be aware, however, that it is possible that we might be required
to make disclosure, for example in response to court orders or in
governmental investigations.

Use of Email Address
--------------------

There are two reasons we might use an email address you provide during
registration: administration, and our mailing list. Administrative email
includes such things as emailing you a password hint if you forget your
registration password, or diagnosing a problem if you submit a change to
the data for a CD. In addition, with your permission we may occasionally
use your email address to send you special offers and promotions.
During registration, or at any time afterward, you can choose not to be
on our mailing list, either by turning this feature off in your
registration options, or by following a simple reply instruction in any
email we send.

Customized Content
------------------
When you look up an album, the Gracenote CDDB² Service uses information
about the album to customize the content, advertisements, and other
promotions displayed in applications that use the Gracenote CDDB²
Service. Gracenote CDDB does this without referring to any personal
information.

Personalized Content
--------------------
Our technology can do personalized "targeting" of content,
advertisements, and other promotions without disclosing any of your
personal information to anyone outside Gracenote CDDB. With your
permission we may use information you have provided to us, such as
registration information or other albums you have looked up, to
personalize the content you see or hear. During registration, or at any
time afterward, you can choose to turn off this personalized service.

Removal of Personal Data
------------------------
You can always change your mind about the information you choose to
provide and the personalization options you select. By bringing up the
"Gracenote Registration" command from any Gracenote CDDB²-enabled
application, you can update or clear the registration information,
including any email address, you have provided.

Data Aggregation
----------------
Gracenote collects aggregate statistics on which music and artists are
most commonly identified by users with the Gracenote CDDB² Service.
("Aggregate statistics" means "group statistics" such as the Gracenote
Digital Top Ten, not individual statistics about your personal use of
the service.) Besides posting these statistics for you and other fans to
enjoy, Gracenote CDDB may publish or share this aggregate information
with other companies. This aggregate data, by its nature, will not
reveal the identity of our users. We also use aggregate data to help us
improve our servers and other components of the Gracenote CDDB²
Service.

Policy Changes
--------------
If we decide to make changes in our policies regarding consumer privacy,
we will post them at this location on the Gracenote web site,
www.Gracenote.com. If you have questions or comments about our policy,
please email us at privacy@gracenote.com.

This statement last updated on March 6 2001.


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Gracenote CDDB Music Recognition Service Privacy Policy
"Classic" CDDB version (CDDB² version see above)

Introduction
------------

Gracenote CDDB believes in protecting consumer privacy. We have spent a
great deal of time and effort designing the Gracenote CDDB Music
Recognition Service[SM] (the "Gracenote Service") that you can use with
trust and confidence. The purpose of this privacy statement is to let
you know how we use information that you may share with us.

Identifying Information
-----------------------

The Gracenote CDDB Service uses a unique identifier to track queries for
statistical purposes (see Data Aggregation below). Different players use
different identifiers. Some players use a random number or string, and
some use email addresses. The identifier choice was made by the author
of the player program, not by Gracenote CDDB. In all cases Gracenote
CDDB uses this identifier only to count queries by unique users.
Gracenote CDDB does not use or share any personal information acquired
as an identifier and discards the entire query record, by storing it in
a circular log file that disappears over time, when it is no longer
needed for counting.

Disclosure of Personal Information
----------------------------------

We do not disclose your individual information to any other company. You
should be aware, however, that it is possible that we might be required
to make disclosure, for example in response to court orders or in
governmental investigations.

Use of Email Address
--------------------

Some player developers choose to use email addresses as the identifier
the player uses to let Gracenote CDDB count unique queries.  Gracenote
CDDB does not use an email address acquired in this way to send email.
Any such email addresses, along with any other record of the query, is
stored temporarily in a log file, but this log is circular and simply
disappears over time.

Some players allow you to submit new entries to Gracenote CDDB. If you
do, an email address is required for submission because Gracenote CDDB
submissions are transmitted to the master Gracenote CDDB site via email.
A valid return address is required in case there is some sort of error
and the server must return your rejected entry for correction. We do
keep a record of the email address from which each Gracenote CDDB
database entry was submitted, but we consider this private and neither
use it for marketing purposes, nor do we distribute it for any purpose
to any party outside Gracenote CDDB.

In all cases, because Gracenote CDDB does not have a way to ask
permission to do so, Gracenote CDDB has never used an email address
acquired as part of a Gracenote CDDB transaction to send email for
marketing purposes, and has never distributed email addresses for any
purpose to any party outside Gracenote CDDB.

Data Aggregation
----------------

Gracenote CDDB collects aggregate statistics on which music and artists
are most commonly identified by users with the Gracenote CDDB Service.
("Aggregate statistics" means "group statistics" such as the Gracenote
Digital Top Ten, not individual statistics about your personal use of
the service.) Besides posting these statistics for you and other fans to
enjoy, Gracenote CDDB may publish or share this aggregate information
with other companies. This aggregate data, by its nature, will not
reveal the identity of our users. We also use aggregate data to help us
improve our servers and other components of the Gracenote CDDB Service.

Policy Changes
--------------

If we decide to make changes in our policies regarding consumer privacy,
we will post them at this web site, which you can always access from
www.Gracenote.com. If you have questions or comments about our policy,
please email us at privacy@gracenote.com.

This statement last updated on March 6 2001.


